### S3: Simple Storage Service ###
- Its an Object-based storage.
- Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB.
- Unlimited storage.
- Files are stored in Buckets.
- S3 uses a universal namespace. Each S3 bucket name must be unique globally.
- S3 bucket link example: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaaws.com/my_bucket_name
- On a successful upload of a file to s3, you'll receive a HTTP 200 code.
* S3 does not require region selection. Its global.

### S3: Data Consistency Model ###
- Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new objects.
- Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate update and delete operation)-

### S3: In Depth ###
- S3 is a simple key-value storage.
    - Key: The name of the object
    - Value: The data (sequence of bytes)
    - Version ID
    - Metadata (e.g. tag)
    - Sub-resources
        - Access Control List
        - Torrent
- Availability: 99.99%
- Durability: 99.99999999999% (11 x 9)
- Tiered Storage Available: Different types of S3 buckets.
- Lifecycle Management (e.g. over 30 days old files will be moved to archive)
- Versioning
- Encryption
- Secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies.
    - Bucket Policy: Policy applied on Bucket level
    - Access Control List: Applied on individual files

### S3: Storage Tiers/Classes ###
- S3 Standard:
    - Availability: 99.99%
    - Durability: 99.99999999999%
    - Redundantly stored across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
        * Devices: disks
        * Facilities: Availability zone
- S3 IA (Infrequently Accessed):
    - Retrieval fee charged
- S3 1 Zone IA:
    - Infrequently accessed data stored in only one availability zone.
- Glacier (Data Archiver)
    - Expedited: Data archived within few minutes
    - Standard: Data archived takes 3-5 hours
    - Bulk: Data archived takes 5-12 hours

|                             | S3 Standard     | S3 Standard-IA  | S3 One Zone-IA  | Glacier         |
|-----------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Durability                  | 99.99999999999% | 99.99999999999% | 99.99999999999% | 99.99999999999% |
| Availability                | 99.99%          | 99.9%           | 99.5%           | NA              |
| Availability SLA            | 99.9%           | 99%             | 99%             | NA              |
| Availability Zones          | >=3             | >=3             | 1               | >=3             |
| Min capacity charge per obj | NA              | 128KB *         | 128KB *         | NA              |
| Min storage duration charge | NA              | 30 Days         | 30 Days         | 90 Days         |
| Retrieval Fee               | NA              | per GB          | per GB          | per GB **       |
| First byte latency          | milliseconds    | milliseconds    | milliseconds    | minutes / hours |
| Storage type                | Object          | Object          | Object          | Object          |
| Lifecycle transitions       | Yes             | Yes             | Yes             | Yes             |

* SLA: Service Level Agreements

### S3: Charges ###
- Charged for:
    - Storage: per GB
    - Number of request
    - Storage management pricing: For metadata (tags etc)
    - Data transfer pricing: When we do cross region replication (transfer data from one region to another)
    - Transfer acceleration: It uses CloudFront's backbone in order to enable fast and secure data transfer to CloudFront's distributed Edge locations. And from there it serves the end user.


### S3 101 summary ###
- S3 is object-based storage.
- Files can be from 0 Bytes to 5 TB.
- Unlimited storage.
- Files are stored in Buckets.
- S3 is a universal namespace. Bucket names must be unique globally.
- example: <https://><s3>-<region>.amazonaws.com/<bucket_name>: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaaws.com/my_bucket_name

* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new objects.
* Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES
* Storage classes/tiers: S3 Standard | S3 IA | S3 One Zone IA | Glacier
* S3 Objects:
    - Key
    - Value
    - Version ID
    - Metadata
    - Sub-resources
        - ACL
        - Torrent
* S3 is not for OS or DB
* HTTP 200 on successful upload
