# Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) #
- On Demand:
    - Pay fixed rate by the hour (or second) with no commitment.
    - Low cost and flexible.
    - Short term, spiky or unpredictable workloads.
    - Applications developed or tested on EC2 for the first time.
- Reserved:
    - 1 or 3 year terms. You get discount on hourly charge.
    - Applications with steady or predictable usage.
    - Standard Reserved Instances (RI): Can save up to 75% off on-demand.
    - Convertible (changeable) Reserved Instances: Can save up to 54%.
- Scheduled Reserved Instances:
    - If you need EC2 within the time window you reserve, a predictable recurring schedule, e.g. every day/week/month at certain time.
- Spot:
    - Bid a price. You can use it if you have a flexible start and end time.
    - e.g. 4am Sunday morning, instead of workday 9-5.
    - You won't be charged if AWS terminates the instance (perhaps the price went up). But you have to pay if you terminate the instance.
- Dedicated Host:
    - Physical EC2 servers.
    - If you are not allowed to go to cloud/multi-tenancy environment.
    - Can save up-to 70%.


# EC2 Instance Type #
- F1: Field programmable gate array:    Big data, genomic research
- I3: High Speed Storage:               NoSQL, Data warehousing
- G3: Graphics Intensive:
- H1: High disk throughput:             MapReduce workload, Distributed file systems (HDFS/MapR-FS)
- T2: Cheap general purpose:            Web servers/Small DBs
- D2:
- R4: Memory optimized:
- M5: General purpose:                  Application server
- C5: Compute optimized
- P3: General purpose GPU:              Machine learning, Bit coin mining
- X1: Memory optimized:                 ApacheSpark


# Elastic Block Storage (EBS) (Virtual Disk) (IMPORTANT) #
EBS allows you to create storage volume and attach them to EC2 instances. Once attached, you then can create a file system on top of these volumes and run a database or use them in any other ways you would use a block device.
EBS volumes are placed in a specific Availability Zone where the are automatically replicated.

**EBS Volume Types**
- General purpose *SSD* (GP2)
    - IOPS:         _up to 10,000_
    - Volume size:  _1GB - 16TB_
    - Throughput:   _160 MiB/s_ (Volumes 170 GiB to 214 GiB: 160; Other volumes 128)
    - Recommended for most workloads
    - System boot volumes
- Provisioned IOPS *SSD* (IO1)
    - IOPS:         _up to 32,000_
    - Volume size:  _4GB - 16TB_
    - Throughput:   _500 MiB/s_
    - Recommended for large database workloads
- Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1)
    - IOPS:         _up to 500_
    - Volume size:  _500GB - 16TB_
    - Throughput:   _500 MiB/s_
    - Big data | Data warehouse | Log processing
    - Can't be boot volume. _It can only be used as additional drives_.
- Cold HDD (SC1)
    - IOPS:         _up to 250_
    - Volume size:  _500GB - 16TB_
    - Throughput:   _250 MiB/s_
    - Lowest cost storage, appropriate for infrequent accessed workloads.
    - Can't be boot volume. _It can only be used as additional drives_.
- Magnetic (Standard)
    - Lowest cost per giga of all EBS volume types that bootable.


# Elastic Beanstalk #
With Elastic Beanstalk, you can quickly deploy and manage applications in the AWS Cloud without worrying about the infrastructure that runs those applications.
An Elastic Beanstalk application is a logical collection of Elastic Beanstalk components, including environments, versions, and environment configurations.
You simply upload your application, and Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the details of capacity provisioning, load balancing, scaling, and application health monitoring.

Elastic Beanstalk can be used to create (1) Web Server environment and (2) Worker environment for long running worker processes.
